This is a version of THIRD for the PDP-8. It was done as a portability
torture test for THIRD, as it offers a degenerate case in which the cell
size contains one byte.

Due to the use of long symbol names, the assembly version requires the use
of a hacked-over version of Doug Jones' PAL assembler to assemble it.
Alternatively, you can just load the .BIN file into SimH to run it.

The QDL source code depends upon the system-independent sources, a PAL-8
header and a PAL-8 trailer (yes, the trailer consists of just a dollar sign).
Of course, this stuff is just academic until I get the compilers cleaned up
a bit.

THIRD is lives in its own private Idaho, so it does not follow any standards
at all. You'll need to stare at the documentation a while before being able
to do anything. The documentation is, of course, not extremely informative.

The program is entered at 200. When you start THIRD, it displays a banner
giving the word size (in bytes), cell size (in bytes), and number of bits in
a cell. It then displays the OK prompt and accepts commands. Oh yeah; I
forgot to mention that all I/O is in hex.

VLIST can be used to display the names of the words in the dictionary. It
won't do you much good without the documentation however - again, it doesn't
follow any standard.

Among the things THIRD doesn't understand is .". Consequently, to display
"HELLO WORLD!" you need to define a string constant and TYPE it.

Here's an example running THIRD under SimH to display HELLO WORLD!:

% pdp8

PDP-8 simulator V3.0-2
sim> load third.bin
sim> go 200
THIRD V0.0 CELLSIZE 001 WORDSIZE 001 BITS 00C 

OK
$ BOOGER HELLO WORLD!

OK
BOOGER TYPE
HELLO WORLD!
OK

The math and return stacks share a 128 word chunk of memory. The math stack
starts at the bottom of the memory and grows up, while the return stack
starts at the bottom and grows down. You therefore have a stack depth of
128, but it's shared between the math and return stacks. There is no stack
checking in THIRD, so watch out!

The PDP-8 version of THIRD was intended to test the portability of THIRD,
not to have a PDP-8 FORTH. Consequently, no attempt has been made to
optimize either the code or the memory usage of THIRD. THIRD does not use
extended memory; it loads and runs in field 0. There are about 832 words of
memory remaining for you to play in after THIRD has been loaded.

I believe, but have no way of verifying, that THIRD will run on a PDP-5.

 - Roger Ivie
